------------------------------------------
--										--
--   Semiconductor Physics and Devices  --
--										--
------------------------------------------

#Chapter 7: The pn Junction

Checkpoint:

*	Q:	Describe why and how the space charge region is formed.

	A:	P region has high density of holes and low density of electrons. N region inverted.
		The density gradient causes the diffusion current flow.
		Near the metallurgical junction, holes move from P region to N region, electrons move from N region to P region.
		While holes and electrons are moving, lefting the unmovable particles in the origin position.
		The area in P region near the metallurgical junction are negative-charged while the area in N region near metallurgical junction are positive-charged.
		This forms a electric field in a direction from N to P.
		The electric field apply force on the holes/electrons in a direction opposite to the diffussion current.
		In equilibrium state without external force, electric field force and diffusion current are balanced, forming a space charge region near the metallurgical junction.
		
*	E:	How is the density in the space charge region?
	
	A:	Note that the peak electric field in the space charge region is quite large. However, there is no mobile charge in this region.
		Hence there is no drift current! The diffussion current occurs at the beginning until the equilibrium state is achieved.
		
*	E:	How is the relationship between doping concentration and space charge region width?
	
	A:	reciprocal, this means for lower doping concentration witdh shall increase.
	
*	E:	How is the relationship between doping concentration and elctric field?

	A:	smaller doping concentration means smaller electric field.

*	Q:	Draw the energy-band diagram of a zero-biased and reverse-biased pn junction.

	A:	In zero-biased pn junction, Fermi-level must be kept in the same level for both P & N region.
		In P region, Fermi-level shall be relatively close to valance band and far from conduction band
		In N region, situation is inverted.
		Therefore, the conduction band and valance band bend down from P region to N region.
		In reverse-biased pn junction, an addition electric field are added to the built-in barrier.
		This means the band shall bend more.
		
*	Q:	Define and derive the expression of the built-in potential barrier voltage

	A:	Calc n0 = Nc*exp(-(Ec - EF)/kT) = ni*exp((EF-EFi)kT) in N region
		Calc p0 = Nv*exp(-(EF - Ev)/kT) = ni*exp((EFi-EF)kT) in P region
		Note EFi in N region is different with EFi in P region, the difference between is so-called built-in barrier.
		replace n0 with Nd (Given Density of doner impurity atoms) in N region.
		repalce p0 with Na (Given Density of acceptor impurity atoms) in P region.
		Built-in barrier Vbi = |EF-EFi| in N region + |EFi-EF| in P region.
		Vbi = kT/e * ln(Na*Nd/ni^2).
		realated to temperature, impurity density
		
*	Q:	Derive the expression for the electric field in space charge region of the pn junction.

	A:	Boundary condition 1：abrupt switch in P/N region and space charge region.
		Boundary condition 2：abrupt switch in metallurgical junction of space charge region.
		Boundary condition 3：uniform doping.
		Applying poisson's equation: the deriviate of electric field to position is constant (volume charge density / permittivity).
		In P region space charge region, volume charge density is negative since negative particles are lefting
		In N region space chareg region, polarity is inverted.
		Electric field is then a straight line with a negative slope in P region, positive slope in N region.
		In the metallurgical junction, Na*xp = Nd*xn.
		Note that the elctric field is no larger than 0 in space charge region.
		Due to the elctric field, hole are more likely in top of valance band in P region and electrons are more likely in bottom of conduction band in N region to keep the lowest energy state.
		
*	Q:	Describe what happens to the parameters of the space charge region when a reverse-biased voltage is applied.

	A:	The equation for Vbi is unchanged, but the Vtotal is increased by a reverse-biased voltage VR.
		The Vtotal originate on positive charges and terminates on negative charges (from N to P).
		This means the number of positive/negative charges increase. Given a impurity density, width must be widen.
		Following sayings are wrong:
		"The E-function moves upwards. Since boundary condition 1, the space charge region is relatively narrower."
		Note that the forming of a reverse-biased voltage is also caused by the aggregation of charged particles.
		Note that Vtotal can replace Vbi in the previous calculation.
		Note that the slop of E-function is unchanged.
		
*	Q:	Define and explain the junction capacitance.

	A:	C = delta Q / delta VR = permittivity / width
		This describe the capacitance during the change of reverse-biased voltage, so-called depletion layer capacitance.
		The unmovable positive/negative particles forms the junction capacitance, just like a parallel plate capacitor.
		
*	E:	Why is the capacitance not defined as Q/R?

	A:	Because this structure is different from the planar capacitance which as charges gathering in 2 plate.
		it is better to describe capacitance as the ratio of delta Q / delta R.
		Besides, this C has a differnt unit as F/cm^2 since Q refers to a charge density instead of charge
	
*	Q:	Describe the characteristrics and properties of a one-sidedd pn junction

	A:	One side has normal doping concentration while the other side has a very low doping concentration.
		According to the equation: Na*xp = Nd*xn, for Nd is infi small, xn is infi large
		The space charge region in N region is over the entire N region. => not accurate! the space charge region extended largely to N region
		W = xp + xn is quasi xn
		Nd is infi small, so Na+Nd is quasi Na.
	
*	Q:	Describe the avalanche breakdown mechanism in a reverse-biased pn junction

	A:	Although there is almost no moving charges in the space charge region, when it gained enough energy, it is able to ionize the other electron-hole pairs by coliding. If the colided ionized charged pairs also gain enoght energy, more pairs will be ionized.
	
*	Q:	Describe how a linearly graded junction is formed.

	A:	Doping a uniformly doped n-type seminconductor with acceptor from the surface => which surface?
	
*	Q:	Describe a hyperabrupt junction
	
	A:	The doping concentration is higher near the metallurgical junction and decrease as the position is far grom the junction.
	

Review questions:

1.	Q:	Define the built-in potential voltage and describe how it maintains thermal equilibrium.

	A:	